So far, we have managed to represent
the probability of grid cells using the factorization method.
Due to factorization, we are now solving
a binary estimation problem in which
grid cells holds a static state that do not change over time.
By static, I mean that the state of the system does not change during sensing.
Locally, a filter to this problem exists,
and is known as the Binary Bayes Filter.
The Binary Bayes Filter solves
the static problems by taking the log odds ratio of the belief.
With static state, the belief is now a function of the measurements only.
Depending on the measurement values reflected,
the state of the grid cell is updated,
and this belief is known by the inverse measurement model
which represents the binary state of grid cells with respect to measurements.
The inverse measurement model is generally used when
measurements are more complex than the binary static state.
Let's take an example of a mobile robot equipped with an RGB-D camera.
Here's the robot mission is to estimate if this door is open or closed.
The field of measurements represented by the camera images is huge
compared to a simple binary state of the door either open or close.
In such situation, it's always easier to use
an inverse sensor model than a forward sensor model.
As I mentioned earlier,
the Binary Bayes Filter will solve
the inverse measurement model with the log odds ratio representation.
To represent the belief in log odds ratio for lt,
Binary Bayes Filter divides the belief by
its negate and then take the logarithmic form of this expression.
The advantage of using
a log odds ratio representation is to avoid probability instabilities near zero or one.